<![endif]  Logo bar  Skip to: Start of article  Navigation toggle  Visually Open Nav.  WIRED logo  Go to Wired Home Page.  Title || Category text  
						Autonomous Vehicles Will Mean the End of Traffic Stops					  Subscribe button  subscribe  Search toggle  Open Search Field.  Search field  Search  Navigation menu  Business culture Design Gear Science Security transportation photo video Photo Video Magazine WIRED INSIDER Roadmap to 2020 Fallback Image Get The Magazine <div class=" border-b cmad cmsubscribe pad-l-med pad-r-med marg-b-med"> 
				Subscribe now to get  6 months for $5 - plus a FREE Portable  Phone Charger.
			 </div> Subscribe Get Our Newsletter WIRED's biggest stories, delivered to your inbox.  real people should not fill this in and expect good things - do not remove this or risk form bot signups Submit Thank You Invalid Email Follow Us On Twitter 44 mins Cyberattacks like this weekend's attack on Muni could happen anywhere and wreak far more havoc:  bit.ly/2gDkxIP Follow Follow Us On Facebook Don't miss our latest news, features and videos. Follow We’re On Pinterest See what's inspiring us. Follow Follow Us On Youtube Don't miss out on WIRED's latest videos. Follow  Header Social  Advertisement.  any images in the post content will be duplicated here as well   full Generated in 0.939 ms Slide:   1  / of   1 . Caption:   ANGELO MERENDINO/AFP/Getty Images Skip Article Header. Skip to: Start of Article. Author: Robin Washington. 
			Robin Washington		 
			Transportation		 Date of Publication: 09.30.16. 09.30.16 Time of Publication: 6:00 am. 6:00 am Autonomous Vehicles Will Mean the End of Traffic Stops Generated in 0.954 ms  ANGELO MERENDINO/AFP/Getty Images This article was published in partnership with The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the US criminal justice system. Sign up for their  newsletter , or follow The Marshall Project on  Facebook , or  Twitter . If African-American motorists—or drivers of any color—deplore being pulled over for a broken taillight only to be socked with more serious charges, they can take heart that the practice should disappear within the next 20 years. Not that racial harmony will be achieved or that a new polymer will make taillights indestructible. Rather, it’s that human beings won’t be doing the driving. “I think you would see the end of traffic stops,” Joseph A. Schafer, the criminal justice department head at Southern Illinois University, says of the coming of  driverless cars . “It radically changes police-public encounters.” Schafer is a co-author of  The Future of Policing  and a member of Police Futurists International, a group describing itself as law enforcement and allied professionals focused on “improving criminal and social justice” through “long-range planning and forecasting.” Schafer predicts it would be futile to ticket the occupants of self-driving cars. The drivers may not own the vehicles, which could be part of a  Google  or  General Motors  fleet that picks up and drops off riders all day long. In that case, he passengers may not have any responsibility for operating or maintaining these vehicles.  Related video widget - small  Related Video Climb Inside Uber’s Self-Driving Car—Its Next Big Disruption While driverless vehicles may seem like a distant fantasy, they’re not far off.  Uber  has begun offering its service using semi- autonomous Ford Fusions in Pittsburgh . Automakers and tech companies are spending billions of dollars battling to be the first to bring fully autonomous vehicles to the market, with  Ford promising to do so by 2021 . There are driverless taxis in Singapore and minibuses in Switzerland and, if you or your neighbor has a recent-model car with adaptive cruise control, lane assist and collision avoidance, it already possesses the technology to drive itself. All that’s needed to remove human drivers from the equation is for the cars to better learn to read and respond to the roads. Various predictions envision a driverless society within 10 to 30 years. That means police departments must begin to develop tactics and equipment that aren’t dependent on cruising and pulling people over. They haven’t done so. “For the last decade, I’ve been talking to police executive training programs about the future of policing,” says Schafer. “I would talk about autonomous cars. People looked at me like I was nuts”—until media attention focused on Google’s testing of autonomous cars. Since then, officials have become more aware but still haven’t begun serious planning, Schafer says. “I’m dealing with people in the second half of their career,” he says. “Most assume they won’t be in law enforcement by the time it becomes an issue. Some are banking on it: ‘Man, this is going to be a headache. I’m glad I won’t be around to take care of it.'” Losing the pretext stop—where officers stop a motorist for a minor violation in order to investigate a potentially more serious crime—is no small thing. Schafer estimates such stops, along with traffic accidents, account for roughly half of all encounters with the public. Bernard Levin, a retired professor of psychology at Blue Ridge Community College in Weyers Cave, Virginia., and a co-author of  The Future of Policing , calls it the “major means of catching people when we don’t know who we’re going for.” Other innovations also are poised to make cruising obsolete, including cameras at stoplights and speed monitors that offer 24/7 traffic enforcement at a fraction of the cost of humans officers and that already capture video of more serious crimes as they occur. Schafer says patrol drones might be the next stage. “You could have multiple drones with one person back at the station applying human judgment when something pops up,” says Schafer. “Unlike today driving around, they might observe a fight in process.” Levin is skeptical that surveillance will supplant live policing. “Most of policing isn’t about technology, it’s about people, and the technology is an add-on,” he says. “There still will be tremendous need for a street cop, a patrol cop, to go to where the problem is and help people solve the problem. Sometimes you help people by arresting them. Most of the time, you just talk people out and help them wind up better than they were. The drone doesn’t help you do that.” The experts do agree, however, that innovations will make it far easier for police to quickly get to a scene, regardless of how they’re notified. Google already has received a patent on light detection and spacial recognition technology directing its driverless vehicles to clear the way for emergency vehicles. Expect future squad cars to add to a layer of redundancy by electronically announcing their presence to the traffic stream. As for old-fashioned cops-and-robbers, high-speed chases are becoming obsolete too, says Levin. After John Dillinger and friends souped-up their getaway cars to leave Keystone Kops-style wagons in the dust, the high-performance squad car made its debut. But with the information explosion and cameras everywhere, the police chase today is not worth the risk, especially with accidents involving civilians, Levin says. “I can go rob a bank in Sheboygan and 20 minutes later, they will have figured out who it is,” he says. “Once they know who it is, it’s not hard [to find them.] It’s very hard to go anywhere without leaving footprints.” Yet like Dillinger, expect criminals also to embrace driverless technology. “A cop will tell you very quickly, ‘Gee, what you have now done is create a wonderful system for the transport of contraband,'” Levin says. He offers a solution: With fully autonomous cars and highways all interconnected, roads and vehicles could simply be powered off. “Think of it as a bumper car ride in an amusement park,” he says. “You can certainly have central control.” If authorities know which vehicle carries the suspect , it could be disabled remotely (or for that matter, the car could be instructed to lock its doors from the inside and drive itself to the police station.) But it’s more difficult if it’s a manhunt involving a random car among several miles of vehicles on Interstate 95. “How far back (do you go)?” asks Levin. “Are you going to stop the whole country every time you have one bad guy in Springfield, Virginia?”  Related video widget - small  Related Video Tesla’s Summon Feature Is Like Knight Rider. Kinda Another futurist paints a more chilling picture, where the driverless world intersects with terrorism. “The FBI actually put out a warning bulletin two or three years ago on what are called VBIEDs” — vehicle borne improvised explosive devices, says Marc Goodman, a global security consultant and author of  Future Crimes . “Take the suicide bomber out of the mix and now you can have that very same threat delivered to your doorstep autonomously.” You don’t have to wait for the future: Some cars already can park themselves with no one inside, and options like  Tesla’s Summon feature  allow the car to pull out of a space and drive itself to you a few dozen feet away. That’s just enough time and distance for a terrorist to set an explosive device and walk away into a crowd — leaving little time for police to react. Go Back to Top. Skip To: Start of Article. Autonomous Vehicles Skip Social. Skip to: Latest News. Share Share Tweet Pin Comment Email Skip Social. Skip to: Latest News. Share Share Tweet Pin Comment Email Skip Latest News. Skip to: Comments. Most Popular 
							21 Amazing Gifts Under $25						 1:1 small Generated in 0.488 ms Gift Guide 21 Amazing Gifts Under $25 13 hours 
							Cyber Monday 2016: The Best Online Shopping Deals						 1:1 small Generated in 0.559 ms consumer tech Cyber Monday 2016: The Best Online Shopping Deals 2 days 
							10 Perfect Gifts for Your Favorite Long-Haul Traveler						 1:1 small Generated in 0.465 ms Gift Guide 10 Perfect Gifts for Your Favorite Long-Haul Traveler 11 hours 
							Review:  Final Fantasy X + V 1:1 small Generated in 0.493 ms Gaming Review:  Final Fantasy X + V 10 hours 
							SF’s Transit Hack Could’ve Been Way Worse—And Cities Must Prepare						 1:1 small Generated in 0.437 ms Infrastructure SF’s Transit Hack Could’ve Been Way Worse—And Cities Must Prepare 1 hour 
							Hacker Lexicon: What Is Perfect Forward Secrecy?						 1:1 small Generated in 0.483 ms Hacker Lexicon Hacker Lexicon: What Is Perfect Forward Secrecy? 13 hours 
							Microsoft Bets Its Future on a Reprogrammable Computer Chip						 1:1 small Generated in 0.474 ms Business Microsoft Bets Its Future on a Reprogrammable Computer Chip 09.25.16 
							Google, Facebook, and Microsoft Are Remaking Themselves Around AI						 1:1 small Generated in 0.550 ms Artificial Intelligence Google, Facebook, and Microsoft Are Remaking Themselves Around AI 11.21.16 More Stories Skip Comments. Skip to: Footer. View comments Sponsored Stories Powered By Outbrain Powered By Outbrain  javascriptz goes here  More Transportation  Top Story Card  4:3 medium 1:1 medium 16:9 medium Generated in 1.652 ms Infrastructure 
									SF’s Transit Hack Could’ve Been Way Worse—And Cities Must Prepare								 1 hour  Narrow Card  1:1 medium 16:9 medium Generated in 2.362 ms WIRED Opinion 
									Car Insurance Pricing Is Broken, But Your Phone Could Fix It								 8 hours  Standard Card   video configuration  1:1 medium 16:9 medium Generated in 2.168 ms aviation 
									I Used Only My Mind to Fly a Plane Around Seattle								 11.15.16  Small Card  1:1 medium 16:9 medium Generated in 2.138 ms food science 
											The Evolution of Airline Cooking Tech, From Quicklime to Sous Vide										 2 days  Small Card  1:1 medium 16:9 medium Generated in 2.480 ms Concepts 
											Flee Your Family Aboard This Flying Saucer Concept										 2 days  Text Card  16:9 medium Generated in 1.495 ms 
								geology							 
								Drop Into an Enchanting Desert Canyon (But Do Mind the Floods)							 6 hours  Secondary Card  We Recommend Powered By Outbrain  JAVASCRIPTZ GO HERE  Get The Magazine <div class=" border-b cmad cmsubscribe pad-l-med pad-r-med marg-b-med"> 
				Subscribe now to get  6 months for $5 - plus a FREE Portable  Phone Charger.
			 </div> Subscribe Get Our Newsletter WIRED's biggest stories, delivered to your inbox.  real people should not fill this in and expect good things - do not remove this or risk form bot signups Submit Thank You Invalid Email Follow Us On Twitter 44 mins Cyberattacks like this weekend's attack on Muni could happen anywhere and wreak far more havoc:  bit.ly/2gDkxIP Follow Follow Us On Facebook Don't miss our latest news, features and videos. Follow We’re On Pinterest See what's inspiring us. Follow Follow Us On Youtube Don't miss out on WIRED's latest videos. Follow Get Our Newsletter WIRED's biggest stories, delivered to your inbox.  real people should not fill this in and expect good things - do not remove this or risk form bot signups Submit Thank You Invalid Email Follow Us On Twitter 44 mins Cyberattacks like this weekend's attack on Muni could happen anywhere and wreak far more havoc:  bit.ly/2gDkxIP Follow Follow Us On Facebook Don't miss our latest news, features and videos. Follow We’re On Pinterest See what's inspiring us. Follow Follow Us On Youtube Don't miss out on WIRED's latest videos. Follow  #main   Veil overlay  Here’s The Thing With Ad Blockers We get it:  Ads aren’t what you’re here for. But ads help us keep the lights on.  So, add us to your ad blocker’s  whitelist  or pay $1 per week for an ad-free version of WIRED. Either way, you are supporting our journalism. We’d really appreciate it. Sign Up Already a member?  Log in Thank You All of us at WIRED appreciate your support! Continue Wired Facebook Wired Twitter Wired Pinterest Wired Youtube Wired Tumblr Wired Instagram Login Subscribe Advertise Site Map Press Center FAQ Customer Care Contact Us T-Shirt Collection Newsletter Wired Staff Jobs RSS Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  user agreement  (effective 3/21/12) and  privacy policy  (effective 3/21/12).  Affiliate link policy .  Your California privacy rights . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written  permission of Condé Nast .  #page   Config detection   COMSCORE   COMSCORE noscript   Omniture DTM 