Skip to section navigation Skip to page content 
Objective Analysis. Effective Solutions.
 Toggle  Menu Site-wide navigation About RAND at a Glance Vision History and Mission Leadership Organizational Structure Contacts Locations Quality Standards Educational Opportunities Employment Support RAND Press Room Events Research Policy Focus Children and Families Education and the Arts Energy and Environment Health and Health Care Infrastructure and Transportation International Affairs Law and Business National Security Population and Aging Public Safety Science and Technology Terrorism and Homeland Security Trending Topics Politics and Government Border and Port Security Health Insurance Markets Counterterrorism Marijuana Syria Information Privacy All Topics Browse Reports Research Programs RAND Army Research Division RAND Australia RAND Education RAND Europe RAND Health RAND Justice, Infrastructure, and Environment RAND Labor and Population RAND National Security Research Division RAND Project AIR FORCE All Programs Featured Research Activities RAND International Center for Asia Pacific Policy Center for Global Risk and Security Center for Middle East Public Policy Center for Russia and Eurasia RAND Gulf States Policy Institute Research Departments Latest Insights Reports Toward a Sustainable Blood Supply in the United States Political Challenges to the U.S. Overseas Military Presence Blog Posts Finding the 'Sweet Spot' in the UK Minimum Wage Debate Measuring What Works: Workplace Well-Being Multimedia Legalizing Weed: Not a Simple Vote Survey Says? Inside RAND's Election Poll Policy Experts All Experts Spotlight Marco Hafner @econ_hafner Commentary: Finding the 'Sweet Spot' in the UK Minimum Wage Debate Christian van Stolk Commentary: Measuring What Works: Workplace Well-Being By Policy Focus Children and Families Education and the Arts Energy and Environment Health and Health Care Infrastructure and Transportation International Affairs Law and Business National Security Population and Aging Public Safety Science and Technology Terrorism and Homeland Security Capabilities Drawing upon decades of experience, RAND provides research services, systematic analysis, and innovative thinking to a global clientele that includes government agencies, foundations, and private-sector firms. Capabilities Overview RAND Solutions Who We Work For Public Sector Philanthropic Sector Private Sector Work with Us Explore Business Contacts About RAND Research Disciplinary Expertise Methods Centers Quality Standards Featured Solutions Planning for the Rising Costs of Dementia Managing Escalation in Crisis and War Methods Centers RAND Center for Decision Making under Uncertainty RAND Center for Gaming Graduate  School The Pardee RAND Graduate School  ( PRGS.edu )  is the largest public policy Ph.D. program in the nation and the only program based at an independent public policy research organization—the RAND Corporation. About PRGS Admissions Academics and Degree Program Students Faculty Featured Video on PRGS.edu Overview: Pardee RAND Graduate School Student Spotlight Claudia Rodriguez Assistant Policy Analyst; Ph.D. Candidate, Pardee RAND Graduate School Alexandra Mendoza-Graf Assistant Policy Analyst; Ph.D. Candidate, Pardee RAND Graduate School About 中文(简体) العربية Sign In Sign out Cart Toggle  Search Site-wide Search Search RAND  >  Published Research  >  Research Reports  >
 Read Online Autonomous Vehicle Technology A Guide for Policymakers by  James M. Anderson ,  Nidhi Kalra ,  Karlyn D. Stanley ,  Paul Sorensen ,  Constantine Samaras ,  Oluwatobi A. Oluwatola  Begin Tags  Related Topics:  Autonomous Vehicles ,  Communication Systems ,  Emerging Technologies ,  No-Fault Automobile Insurance ,  Passenger Traffic ,  Surface Traffic Models ,  Traffic Accidents ,  Traffic Congestion ,  Transportation Planning ,  Transportation Safety ,  Urban Planning  End Tags  Citation Embed View related products Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Download Download eBook for Free Full Document Format File Size Notes 
PDF file 1.2 MB Best for desktop computers.  Use  Adobe Acrobat Reader  version 7.0 or higher for the best experience. 
ePub file 1.4 MB Best for mobile devices.  On desktop computers and some mobile devices, you may need to download an eBook reader to view ePub files.  Calibre  is an example of a free and open source e-book library management application. 
mobi file 3.3 MB Best for Kindle 1-3.  On desktop computers and some mobile devices, you may need to download an eBook reader to view mobi files.  Amazon Kindle  is the most popular reader for mobi files. 无人驾驶技术: 决策指南: 内容摘要 Chinese language version (summary only) Format File Size Notes 
PDF file 0.4 MB Use  Adobe Acrobat Reader  version 7.0 or higher for the best experience. Purchase Purchase Print Copy   Format List Price Price Add to Cart Paperback 214 pages $29.95 $23.96  20% Web Discount  End four columns   End row   End product-header  Research Questions What are the advantages of automated vehicle technology? What are the disadvantages? How should the use of this technology be regulated, and at what level? What kinds of vehicles should be allowed on the road, and who is allowed to operate them? How should the safety of this technology be tested, and by whom? To what safety standards should AVs be held? What are the primary obstacles to realizing the benefits of this technology and what can be done about them? For the past hundred years, innovation within the automotive sector has created safer, cleaner, and more affordable vehicles, but progress has been incremental. The industry now appears close to substantial change, engendered by autonomous, or "self-driving," vehicle technologies. This technology offers the possibility of significant benefits to social welfare — saving lives; reducing crashes, congestion, fuel consumption, and pollution; increasing mobility for the disabled; and ultimately improving land use. This report is intended as a guide for state and federal policymakers on the many issues that this technology raises. After surveying the advantages and disadvantages of the technology, RAND researchers determined that the benefits of the technology likely outweigh the disadvantages. However, many of the benefits will accrue to parties other than the technology's purchasers. These positive externalities may justify some form of subsidy. The report also explores policy issues, communications, regulation and standards, and liability issues raised by the technology; and concludes with some tentative guidance for policymakers, guided largely by the principle that the technology should be allowed and perhaps encouraged when it is superior to an average human driver. This version of the report, RR-443-2, replaces an earlier version that contained an incomplete account of General Motor's policy on its use of OnStar customer data, none of which affected the findings of the report. Key Findings Automated Vehicle Technology Offers Several Benefits Without driver error, fewer vehicle crashes will result. The mobility of the young, the elderly, and the disabled will be increased. Traffic flow could be more efficient and congestion decreased. Vehicle occupants could spend travel time engaged in other activities, so the costs of travel time and congestion are reduced. Fuel efficiency can be increased and alternative energy sources facilitated. Because such vehicles won't need proximate urban parking, space used for parking could be repurposed. There Are Possible Drawbacks Because the technology would decrease the cost of driving, congestion might increase, rather than decrease. Occupations and economies based on public transit, crash repair, and automobile insurance might suffer as the technology makes certain aspects of these occupations obsolete. Policy Implications Include Liability and Regulation Issues Manufacturer liability is likely to increase while personal liability is likely to decrease. If a vehicle and a human share driving responsibility, the insurance issues could become more complicated. A variety of solutions exist if this poses a problem. Inconsistent state regulation poses a risk — if 50 states have 50 different regulations, it would be difficult for manufacturers to match them all; likewise, vehicle owners might not be able to travel outside their state of residence. Because many of the benefits of autonomous vehicle technology accrue to those other than the purchaser, subsidies or taxes may be necessary in order to maximize social welfare by equalizing the public and private costs and benefits. Recommendations Further research should be conducted to better quantify the likely costs and benefits of the technology and, just as importantly, to whom they will accrue. As the technology evolves, policymakers should consider subsidies or taxes to equalize the public and private costs and benefits of this technology. In general, autonomous vehicle technology ought to be permitted if and when it is superior to average human drivers. Judges should consider incorporating the long-run costs and benefits of a technology in ruling on product liability suits. At this point, aggressive policymaker intervention with respect to regulations or liability is premature and would probably do more harm than good, but that may change over time.  Related Products  News Release  News Release  Self-Driving Vehicles Offer Potential Benefits, Policy Challenges for Lawmakers Jan 6, 2014  Research Brief  Autonomous Vehicle Technology: How to Best Realize Its Social Benefits Jan 6, 2014 James M. Anderson ,  Nidhi Kalra @FollowNidhi , et al.  Multimedia  "Self Driving" Vehicles: Great Benefits, but Barriers to Widespread Adoption Mar 24, 2014 Journal Article  Journal Article  Legal Accelerators and Brakes for Deployment of Automated Vehicles Feb 20, 2015 Table of Contents Chapter One Introduction Chapter Two The Promise and Perils of Autonomous Vehicle Technology Chapter Three Current State Law and Legislative Activity Chapter Four Brief History and Current State of Autonomous Vehicles Chapter Five The Role of Telematics and Communications Chapter Six Standards and Regulations and Their Application to Autonomous Vehicle Technologies Chapter Seven Liability Implications of Autonomous Vehicle Technology Chapter Eight Guidance for Policymakers and Conclusion Appendix  Conclusions from Qualitative Interviews with Stakeholders Research conducted by Science, Technology, and Policy RAND  Justice, Infrastructure, and Environment This report results from the RAND Corporation's  Investment in People and Ideas  program. Support for this program is provided, in part, by the generosity of RAND's donors and by the fees earned on client-funded research. This report is part of the RAND Corporation research report series. RAND reports present research findings and objective analysis that address the challenges facing the public and private sectors. All RAND reports undergo rigorous peer review to ensure high standards for research quality and objectivity. Permission is given to duplicate this electronic document for personal use only, as long as it is unaltered and complete. Copies may not be duplicated for commercial purposes. Unauthorized posting of RAND PDFs to a non-RAND Web site is prohibited. RAND PDFs are protected under copyright law. For information on reprint and linking permissions, please visit the  RAND Permissions  page. The RAND Corporation is a nonprofit institution that helps improve policy and decisionmaking through research and analysis. RAND's publications do not necessarily reflect the opinions of its research clients and sponsors. indicia  end nine columns  Document Details Copyright:  RAND Corporation Availability:  Available 
Print
Format:  Paperback Paperback Pages:  214 List Price:  $29.95 Paperback Price:   $23.96 Paperback ISBN/EAN:  9780833083982 DOI:  10.7249/RR443-2 Document Number:  RR-443-2-RC Year:  2016 Series: Research Reports Explore Related Topics Autonomous Vehicles Communication Systems Emerging Technologies No-Fault Automobile Insurance Passenger Traffic Surface Traffic Models Traffic Accidents Traffic Congestion Transportation Planning Transportation Safety Urban Planning Browse by Series Browse by Authors You Might Also Be Interested In... Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers Stay Informed Transportation & Infrastructure Sign up to receive Congressional updates focusing on  Transportation & Infrastructure . Subscribe More Alerts & Newsletters »  end three columns   end row  Anderson, James M., Nidhi Kalra, Karlyn D. Stanley, Paul Sorensen, Constantine Samaras and Oluwatobi A. Oluwatola. Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers. Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, 2016. http://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR443-2.html. Also available in print form. Anderson, James M., Nidhi Kalra, Karlyn D. Stanley, Paul Sorensen, Constantine Samaras and Oluwatobi A. Oluwatola, Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers, Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Corporation, RR-443-2-RC, 2016. As of November 27, 2016: http://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR443-2.html Copy and paste the selected text Format:  Chicago Manual of Style  RAND Corporation Style Manual Save to My RAND  Email Print Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn About The RAND Corporation is a research organization that develops solutions to public policy challenges to help make communities throughout the world safer and more secure, healthier and more prosperous. RAND is nonprofit, nonpartisan, and committed to the public interest. Vision Leadership Quality Standards Career Opportunities Santa Monica, CA Washington, DC Pittsburgh, PA New Orleans, LA Boston, MA Cambridge, UK Brussels, BE Canberra, AU Connect Contact Us Contact Us Locations I am interested in Jobs at RAND Media Resources Congressional Resources Doing Business with RAND Supporting RAND Educational Opportunities Alumni Association Follow RAND Corporation on Facebook RAND Corporation on Twitter RAND Corporation on LinkedIn RAND Corporation on YouTube RAND Corporation on Google Plus RAND Corporation RSS Feeds RAND Corporation mobile applications Stay Informed Subscribe to the weekly Policy Currents newsletter to receive updates on the issues that matter most. Subscribe View all email newsletters Resources Multimedia Latest Reports Browse by Author RAND Classics Databases and Tools Site Information Site Map PRIVACY POLICY Support Policy Feedback Help 1776 Main Street Santa Monica ,  California 90401-3208 RAND® is a registered trademark.  Copyright © 1994-2016 RAND Corporation.
