Google Self-Driving Car Project Menu 
              What if it could be easier and safer for everyone to get around?
             
              To start, we’re building prototype vehicles that are designed to take you where you
              want to go at the push of a button—no driving required.
             Watch video 
            Why self-driving cars matter
           
              Imagine if everyone could get around easily and safely, regardless of their ability
              to drive.
             
              Aging or visually impaired loved ones wouldn't have to give up their independence.
              Time spent commuting could be time spent doing what you want to do. Deaths from
              traffic accidents—over 1.2 million worldwide every year—could be reduced
              dramatically, especially since 94% of accidents in the U.S. involve human error.
             
            How it works
           
              Our self-driving cars are designed to navigate safely through city streets.
             
              They have sensors designed to detect objects as far as two football fields away in
              all directions, including pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles—or even fluttering
              plastic shopping bags and rogue birds. The software processes all the information to
              help the car safely navigate the road without getting tired or distracted.
             Learn more 
              What we’re up to
             
              We’ve self-driven more than 2 million miles and are currently out on the streets of
              Mountain View, CA, Austin, TX, Kirkland, WA and Metro Phoenix, AZ.
             
              Our testing fleet includes both modified Lexus SUVs and new prototype vehicles that
              are designed from the ground up to be fully self-driving. There are test drivers
              aboard all vehicles for now. We look forward to learning how the community perceives
              and interacts with us, and uncovering situations that are unique to a fully
              self-driving vehicle.
             
              Say hello if you see us around!
             Learn more 
          Menu
         Overview How it
            works On the road Paint the
            Town Contact
            us FAQ Monthly reports Google+ YouTube About
            X Privacy Terms